Adding organization section (#29796)
keycloak/keycloak: docs/documentation/server_admin/topics/organizations/managing-members.adoc

[id="managing-organization-members_{context}"]

[[_managing_members_]]
=  Managing members
[role="_abstract"]

> An organization member is basically a realm user but with a link to a single organization. They are logically separated

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An organization member is basically a realm user but with a link to a single organization. This member is logically separated
```

Author: Isn't they being used here as a "neutral" pronoun?

Reviewer: Yes but organization member is singular in the preceding sentence.

from other users in a realm so that you know exactly which users belong to an organization.

There are different ways to add, or onboard, a member to an organization:

* Adding an existing realm user as a member
* Through an identity provider associated with an organization
* Sending an invitation to create a new account
* Sending an invitation to an existing user to join an organization

> Once a member of an organization, their account can be managed just like any regular account in a realm by accessing the `Users` section

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once a member of an organization, that user's account can be managed just like any regular account in a realm by accessing the *Users* section
```

Author: Isn't they being used here as a "neutral" pronoun?

Author: Fixed by https://github.com/keycloak/keycloak/pull/29796/commits/4fbe89eeb1935f395ecd26b6cc1c60f995b68aec.

in the menu.

> However, you can narrow the users to only those associated with an organization by accessing the `Members` tab

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, you can narrow the users to only those associated with an organization by accessing the *Members* tab
```

Author: Done

> when managing an organization. In this tab, you have a list of all the organization members and actions to add new members, edit and remove

Reviewer: ```suggestion
when managing an organization. In this tab, you have a list of all the organization members and actions to add new members and to edit and remove
```

existing ones.

[[_managed_unmanaged_members_]]
== Managed and unmanaged members

> Before going further on how to manage members, it is important to understand their relationship with an organization given
> that it affects the lifecycle of their accounts. As previously mentioned, members can join an organization through different flows where each of these flows indicates how
> strong is the link between a user and an organization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In managing members, consider how their relationship with an organization affects the lifecycle of their accounts. Members can join an organization through different flows and each flow indicates the strength of the link between the user and the organization.
```

Author: Changed here https://github.com/keycloak/keycloak/pull/29796/commits/e08ffb4cff2a2dd6169259c3d607127d793a8408.

There are two types of members:

* *Managed*
* *Unmanaged*

> Managed members are those managed by the organization itself, and they cannot exist without the organization they belong to. For instance,
> an account created through an identity provider associated with an organization does not belong to a realm as it was federated from the organization itself.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Managed members are those managed by the organization, and they cannot exist outside of their organization. For instance, consider 
an account created through an identity provider associated with an organization. That account does not belong to a realm as it was federated from the organization.
```

> In this case, we can assume that the single-source of truth for the identity is the organization and its lifecycle is controlled

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case, the single-source of truth for the identity is the organization and its lifecycle is controlled
```

by the organization.

> Removing the organization or removing the member, should also remove the account from the realm.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you remove the organization or the member, the account is also removed from the realm.
```

On the other hand, unmanaged members are those that can exist without the organization. For instance, when adding an existing
realm user to an organization, the account belongs to the realm first and foremost and eventually linked to an organization. In this case,

> removing an organization or a member will not remove the account from the realm. In this case, the realm is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
removing an organization or a member will not remove the account from the realm; the realm is
```

the single-source of truth for the identity.

== Adding an existing realm user as a member

> An existing realm user can join an organization by selecting them from a list and adding to the organization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An existing realm user can join an organization by selecting that user from a list and adding the user to the organization.
```

.Procedure

. Click *Add member*.
. Click *Add realm user*.

> . Select one or more users and click `Add` to add them to the organization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Select one or more users and click *Add* to add them to the organization.
```

> Once a member of the organization, a realm user is able to authenticate to the realm just like a regular user and using

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once a user is a member of the organization, that user is able to authenticate to the realm just like a regular user and using
```

Author: Fixed by https://github.com/keycloak/keycloak/pull/29796/commits/d889a676a453a5bff4bc630e58481549e5fdcfb4.

any credential supported by the realm.

== Inviting users

An administrator can email users to join an organization.

.Procedure

. Click *Add member*.
. Click *Invite member*.
. Provide an email address
. Click `Send`

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Provide an email address.
. Click *Send*.

```

> Optionally, you can also provide a value for the `First name` and `Last name` fields for a more personalized email

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Optionally, you can also provide a value for the *First name* and *Last name* fields for a more personalized email
```

message using a greeting message with the first and last names of the person receiving the email.

An invitation is basically an email sent with a link that the person should click to perform the necessary steps to join
an organization. These steps depend on whether the person already has an account in the realm or if a new account should
be created before joining the organization.

If the email maps to an existing user in a realm, the steps the user will follow are basically about confirming the
intention to join the organization.

> On the other hand, if there is no user associated with the given email address, the steps

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the other hand, if no user is associated with the given email address, the steps
```

Reviewer: I always try to avoid "there is" or "it is".  Grammatically it doesn't make sense if you ask youself what is the subject of the sentence.  Is it "there?"

Author: Fixed by https://github.com/keycloak/keycloak/pull/29796/commits/ba047c2ee5710833ab08c7df71b2116d5b1cda41.

will involve creating a new account through the realm's self-registration flow. In this case, the user is forced
to provide the same email address used to send the invitation.

> Make sure to enable the `User registration` setting in the `Login` tab at the `Realm settings` to use this type of invitation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure to enable  *User registration* in the *Login* tab at the *Realm settings* to use this type of invitation.
```

Author: Fixed by https://github.com/keycloak/keycloak/pull/29796/commits/ba047c2ee5710833ab08c7df71b2116d5b1cda41.

[[_onboard_member_identity_provider_]]
== Onboarding members using an Identity Provider

An organization might have its own identity provider as the single source of truth for their identities. In this case,

> users federated from the identity provider are automatically added as a member of the organization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
users federated from the identity provider are automatically added as organization members.
```

When users join an organization through an identity provider associated with an organization, they are automatically marked
as managed members. In this case, they will go through the broker login flows configured in the realm and join the organization
automatically once they successfully authenticate.

Onboarding new members through an identity provider can be done by either automatically redirecting the user to an organization's
identity provider or by selecting the identity provider when at the login page.

In both cases, once the user provides the email, {project_name} will try to match an organization based on the email domain. In case
the email domain matches the organization, and there is an identity provider associated with the same domain and the `Redirect when email domain matches`
setting enabled, the user will be automatically redirected to the identity provider. Once the user authenticates at the identity provider

> and completes the first broker login flow, the user is automatically added as a member of the organization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the email domain matches the organization, and an identity provider is associated with the same domain and the *Redirect when email domain matches* 
setting is enabled, the user is automatically redirected to the identity provider. Once the user authenticates at the identity provider
and completes the first broker login flow, the user is automatically added as an organization  member.
```

Author: Fixed by https://github.com/keycloak/keycloak/pull/29796/commits/aa9a6d90a74108afeb88456fd570c9f777b1336e.

On the other hand, if `Redirect when email domain matches` is not enabled but the identity provider is configured to
`Show on login page`, the user can select the identity provider and then be redirected to the identity provider to continue

> the onboarding process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the other hand, if *Redirect when email domain matches* is not enabled, but the identity provider is configured to
*Show on login page*, the user can select the identity provider and then be redirected to the identity provider to continue
the onboarding process.
```

Author: Fixed by https://github.com/keycloak/keycloak/pull/29796/commits/14a1283d4730a7c7432464a0ca9fa13ed02a4008.

> Look at the <<_managing_identity_provider_,Managing Identity Providers>> section for more details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more details, see <<_managing_identity_provider_,Managing Identity Providers>>.
```

== Removing a member

> To remove a member from an organization, select the member you want to remove and click on `Remove`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To remove a member from an organization, select the member you want to remove and click *Remove*.
```

Author: Fixed by https://github.com/keycloak/keycloak/pull/29796/commits/91c55811cd847928f2983b737de439ce3100d982.

> .Procedure

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: Fixed by https://github.com/keycloak/keycloak/pull/29796/commits/91c55811cd847928f2983b737de439ce3100d982.

> . Click *Remove* from the action menu next to the member you want to remove and confirm deletion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. From the action menu next to the member you want to remove, click *Remove*.
```

Author: Fixed by https://github.com/keycloak/keycloak/pull/29796/commits/91c55811cd847928f2983b737de439ce3100d982.

> When removing a member from an organization, keep in mind that their account may or may not be removed from a realm depending if
> they are a managed or unmanaged member, respectively.
> 
> Look at the <<_managed_unmanaged_members_,Managed and unmanaged members>> section for more details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When removing a member from an organization, remember that the user may or may not be removed from a realm depending on if
that user is managed or unmanaged member, respectively.

Look at the <<_managed_unmanaged_members_,Managed and unmanaged members>> section for more details.
```

Author: Fixed by https://github.com/keycloak/keycloak/pull/29796/commits/91c55811cd847928f2983b737de439ce3100d982.

[id="managing-organization-members_{context}"]

> =  Managing Members

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=  Managing members
```

[role="_abstract"]

> Manage Members

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Manage members
```

Reviewer: Is this a task?

Author: I should remove that.

== Adding an existing realm user as a member

> == Understanding Managed and Unmanaged Members

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Managed and unmanaged members
```

Reviewer: If this a concept, not a task, we use nouns not verbs.

Author: It is a concept.
